well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
Canada's water Americans stick around
understand everything I'm saying for
Canada is true for the United States we
just don't have a massive investigation
that uncovered it we have the same
problems so Canadian journalists
journalism students university faculty
members a whole bunch of people banded
together and conducted this massive
investigation of pretty much the entire
country and they determined that they
are having a water crisis on a national
level that is worse than Flint if you
did not follow that story and you're a
Canadian just we have the same problems
Flint was a a city that got highlighted
because it was exceptionally bad in
Canada they found that they have
hundreds of thousands of Canadians who
have been unknowingly drinking
contaminated water drinking water that
had high levels of lead in it in several
cities the levels were consistently and
considerably higher than Flint's
intentionally not saying the worst
contaminated cities because if you are a
Canadian you need to go look at the list
because even if you're not one of the
worse off you you're probably still in
trouble you need to look at this and you
need to hold your local officials
accountable 33 percent of tested water
sources had lead levels higher than five
parts per billion which is the Canadian
guideline now in the u.s. we have a
limit of 15 parts per billion they don't
have a limit they have a guideline
established by the their federal
government
but each jurisdiction handles it in its
own way
there's no unified response to this
there there really is no safe level of
lead it's all bad it is all bad a single
glass of highly contaminated water can
can lead to hospitalization it's all bad
in kids it lowers IQs causes problem
focusing it damages the brain kidneys
it's just all bad schools there are not
regularly tested and by my reading and I
might be wrong on this because this is
just something I couldn't really believe
even if the local jurisdiction tests the
school and finds out it has high levels
they're under no obligation to tell
anybody is is the way I read that I
might be wrong but that's certainly the
way it appeared one of the estimates
said that there were half a million
service lines that are led that's a huge
problem service lines service multiple
homes or apartment complexes that's a
lot of affected people the water itself
in situations like this the water is
fine what happens is that old lead pipes
corrode a little bit and chunks of lead
break free and they end up in the water
and the only way to fix it is to replace
it
there are anti corrosives that could be
put into the water but that it's
band-aid it doesn't really solve the
problem it just kicks the can a little
bit further down the road and that's how
we canada and the u.s. wound up in the
situation to begin with we have aging
infrastructure it's got to be fixed
it has to be fixed and it's not just
water lines it's bridges
it's everything we have aging
infrastructure but it costs money it
costs money
and we don't want to spend it I guess in
Canada there is no unified response
because it is done by jurisdiction some
of the jurisdictions like Quebec
they came out and Farrell I said they're
like we're fixing this now oh they
definitely seem to understand the
severity of the issue my understanding
is that I think it was Montreal is
actually going to replace both the
public side and the private pipes the
pipes that are on private property and
let the homeowner pay them back like
anytime and like the next decade and a
half when they get the cash they're just
they're just gonna fix it when we have
issues like this it just it boggles the
mind we're talking about developed
countries countries that are seen as
some of the most powerful on the planet
but until we as citizens care how our
money is spent stuff like this is going
to continue to happen I would personally
rather pay to have all the pipes in
Flint fixed rather than send some more
bombs overseas call me crazy but here we
are and at the end of the day if a
government cannot provide the most basic
of services clean water
if a jurisdiction can't provide that if
a government can't provide that what
good is it if it can't do that
how can it be trusted to do anything
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night